Update form-validation topic for task-orientation and style (#36374)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/form-validation.md

> # Validating form input

Reviewer: Seems like we should rename the file to match?

Author: We are redoing titles to be more task-oriented, but if we rename the files we get link problems. If you want to do this in general, maybe open an issue?

You can improve overall data quality by validating user input for accuracy and completeness.
This page shows how to validate user input from the UI and display useful validation messages,
in both reactive and template-driven forms.

**Prerequisites**

> Before reading about form validation, you should have a basic understanding to the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before reading about form validation, you should have a basic understanding of the following.
```

API reference.

   * The `*ngIf` on the `<div>` element reveals a set of nested message `divs`
but only if the `name` is invalid and the control is either `dirty` or `touched`.

   * Each nested `<div>` can present a custom message for one of the possible validation errors.
There are messages for `required`, `minlength`, and `forbiddenName`.

{@a dirty-or-touched}

<div class="alert is-helpful">

To prevent the validator from displaying errors before the user has a chance to edit the form, you should check for either the `dirty` or `touched` states in a control.

* When the user changes the value in the watched field, the control is marked as "dirty".
* When the user blurs the form control element, the control is marked as "touched".

</div>

{@a reactive-form-validation}

## Validating input in reactive forms

In a reactive form, the source of truth is the component class.
Instead of adding validators through attributes in the template, you add validator functions directly to the form control model in the component class.
Angular then calls these functions whenever the value of the control changes.

### Validator functions

> Validator functions are either synchronous or asynchronous.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validator functions can be either synchronous or asynchronous.
```

> * **Sync validators**: Synchronous functions take a control instance and immediately return either a set of validation errors or `null`. You can pass these in as the second argument when you instantiate a `FormControl`.

Reviewer: The "that" is necessary. Otherwise, it sounds like we are defining "synchronous functions" as functions that take a control instance.

```suggestion
* **Sync validators**: Synchronous functions that take a control instance and immediately return either a set of validation errors or `null`. You can pass these in as the second argument when you instantiate a `FormControl`.
```

Reviewer: Looks like this still needs to be addressed?

Author: oops.

> * **Async validators**: Asynchronous functions take a control instance and return a Promise

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Async validators**: Asynchronous functions that take a control instance and return a Promise
```

Reviewer: Same here

In this example, the `name` control sets up two built-in validators&mdash;`Validators.required` and `Validators.minLength(4)`&mdash;and one custom validator, `forbiddenNameValidator`. (For more details see [custom validators](#custom-validators) below.)

All of these validators are synchronous, so they are passed as the second argument. Notice that you can support multiple validators by passing the functions in as an array.

This example also adds a few getter methods. In a reactive form, you can always access any form control through the `get` method on its parent group, but sometimes it's useful to define getters as shorthand for the template.

If you look at the template for the `name` input again, it is fairly similar to the template-driven example.

<code-example path="form-validation/src/app/reactive/hero-form-reactive.component.html" region="name-with-error-msg" header="reactive/hero-form-reactive.component.html (name with error msg)"></code-example>

This form differs from the template-driven version in that it no longer exports any directives. Instead, it uses the `name` getter defined in  the component class.

> Notice that the `required` attribute is still present in the template. Although it's not necessary for validation purposes, it can be useful for CSS styling or accessibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that the `required` attribute is still present in the template. Although it's not necessary for validation purposes, it should be retained in the template for accessibility purposes.
```

{@a custom-validators}

## Defining custom validators

The built-in validators don't always match the exact use case of your application, so you sometimes need to create a custom validator.

Consider the `forbiddenNameValidator` function from previous [reactive-form examples](#reactive-component-class).
Here's what the definition of that function looks like.

<code-example path="form-validation/src/app/shared/forbidden-name.directive.ts" region="custom-validator" header="shared/forbidden-name.directive.ts (forbiddenNameValidator)"></code-example>

> The function is a validator-function factory. It takes a regular expression to detect a _specific_ forbidden name and returns a validator function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The function is a factory that takes a regular expression to detect a _specific_ forbidden name and returns a validator function.
```

* `.ng-untouched`
* `.ng-touched`

In the following example, the hero form uses the `.ng-valid` and `.ng-invalid` classes to
set the color of each form control's border.

<code-example path="form-validation/src/assets/forms.css" header="forms.css (status classes)">

</code-example>

## Cross-field validation

A cross-field validator is a [custom validator](#custom-validators "Read about custom validators") that compares the values of different fields in a form and accepts or rejects them in combination.
For example, you might have a form that offers mutually incompatible options, so that if the user can choose A or B, but not both.

> Some field values might also depend on others; a user might be allowed to choose B only if A is also chosen.

Reviewer: This is great 👍

<code-example path="form-validation/src/app/shared/alter-ego.directive.ts" region="async-validator"></code-example>

The constructor injects the `HeroesService`, which defines the following interface.

```typescript
interface HeroesService {
  isAlterEgoTaken: (alterEgo: string) => Observable<boolean>;
}
```

In a real world application, the `HeroesService` would be responsible for making an HTTP request to the hero database to check if the alter ego is available.
From the validator's point of view, the actual implementation of the service is not important, so the example can just code against the `HeroesService` interface.

As the validation begins, the `UniqueAlterEgoValidator` delegates to the `HeroesService` `isAlterEgoTaken()` method with the current control value.
At this point the control is marked as `pending` and remains in this state until the observable chain returned from the `validate()` method completes.

The `isAlterEgoTaken()` method dispatches an HTTP request that checks if the alter ego is available, and returns `Observable<boolean>` as the result.
The `validate()` method pipes the response through the `map` operator and transforms it into a validation result.

> The `validate()` method (like any validator) returns `null` if the form is valid, and `ValidationErrors` if it is not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method then (like any validator) returns `null` if the form is valid, and `ValidationErrors` if it is not.
```
